doc/cephfs/cephfs-mirroring.rst, before:

.. _cephfs-mirroring:

=========================
CephFS Snapshot Mirroring
=========================

CephFS supports asynchronous replication of snapshots to a remote CephFS file system via
the `cephfs-mirror` tool. Snapshots are synchronized by mirroring snapshot data followed by
creating a remote snapshot with the same name (for a given directory on the remote file system) as
the source snapshot.

Requirements
------------

The primary (local) and secondary (remote) Ceph clusters version should be Pacific or later.

Creating Users
--------------

Start by creating a Ceph user (on the primary/local cluster) for the `cephfs-mirror` daemon. This user
requires write capability on the metadata pool to create RADOS objects (index objects)
for watch/notify operation and read capability on the data pool(s)::

  $ ceph auth get-or-create client.mirror mon 'profile cephfs-mirror' mds 'allow r' osd 'allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*, allow r tag cephfs data=*' mgr 'allow r'

Create a Ceph user for each file system peer (on the secondary/remote cluster). This user needs
to have full capabilities on the MDS (to take snapshots) and the OSDs::

  $ ceph fs authorize <fs_name> client.mirror_remote / rwps

This user will be supplied as part of the peer specification when adding a peer.

Starting Mirror Daemon
----------------------

The mirror daemon should be spawned using `systemctl(1)` unit files::

  $ systemctl enable cephfs-mirror@mirror
  $ systemctl start cephfs-mirror@mirror

`cephfs-mirror` daemon can be run in foreground using::

  $ cephfs-mirror --id mirror --cluster site-a -f

.. note:: The user specified here is `mirror` created in the `Creating Users` section.

Interface
---------

The `Mirroring` module (manager plugin) provides interfaces for managing directory snapshot
mirroring. These are (mostly) wrappers around monitor commands for managing
file system mirroring and is the recommended control interface.

Mirroring Module
----------------

The mirroring module is responsible for assigning directories to mirror daemons for
synchronization. Multiple mirror daemons can be spawned to achieve concurrency in
directory snapshot synchronization. When mirror daemons are spawned (or terminated),
the mirroring module discovers the modified set of mirror daemons and rebalances
directory assignments across the new set, thus providing high-availability.

.. note:: Deploying a single mirror daemon
          is recommended; running multiple daemons is untested.

The mirroring module is disabled by default. To enable the mirroring module::

  $ ceph mgr module enable mirroring

The mirroring module provides a family of commands to control mirroring of directory
snapshots. To add or remove directories, mirroring needs to be enabled for a given
file system. To enable mirroring for a given file system::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror enable <fs_name>

.. note:: Mirroring module commands are prefixed with `fs snapshot mirror` as compared to
          monitor commands which are prefixed with `fs mirror`. Be sure to use module
          commands.

To disable mirroring for a given file system::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror disable <fs_name>

Once mirroring is enabled, add a peer to which directory snapshots are to be mirrored.
Peers are specified by `<client>@<cluster>` and are assigned a unique-id (UUID)
when added. See `Creating Users` section on how to create Ceph users for mirroring.

To add a peer use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_add <fs_name> <remote_cluster_spec> [<remote_fs_name>] [<remote_mon_host>] [<cephx_key>]

`<remote_fs_name>` is optional, and defaults to `<fs_name>` (on the remote cluster).

This requires the remote cluster ceph configuration and user keyring to be available in
the primary cluster. See `Bootstrap Peers` section to avoid this. `peer_add` additionally
supports passing the remote cluster monitor address and the user key. However, bootstrapping
a peer is the recommended way to add a peer.

.. note:: Only a single peer is currently supported.

To remove a peer use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_remove <fs_name> <peer_uuid>

To list file system mirror peers use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_list <fs_name>

To configure a directory for mirroring, use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add <fs_name> <path>

To stop a mirroring directory snapshots use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror remove <fs_name> <path>

Only absolute directory paths are allowed. Also, paths are normalized by the mirroring
module, therefore, `/a/b/../b` is equivalent to `/a/b`.

  $ mkdir -p /d0/d1/d2
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/d2
  {}
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/../d1/d2
  Error EEXIST: directory /d0/d1/d2 is already tracked

Once a directory is added for mirroring, additional mirroring of subdirectories or ancestor directories
is disallowed::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1
  Error EINVAL: /d0/d1 is a ancestor of tracked path /d0/d1/d2
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/d2/d3
  Error EINVAL: /d0/d1/d2/d3 is a subtree of tracked path /d0/d1/d2

Commands to check directory mapping (to mirror daemons) and directory distribution are
detailed in `Mirroring Status` section.

Bootstrap Peers
---------------

Adding a peer (via `peer_add`) requires the peer cluster configuration and user keyring
to be available in the primary cluster (manager host and hosts running the mirror daemon).
This can be avoided by bootstrapping and importing a peer token. Peer bootstrap involves
creating a bootstrap token on the peer cluster via::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap create <fs_name> <client_entity> <site-name>

e.g.::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap create backup_fs client.mirror_remote site-remote
  {"token": "eyJmc2lkIjogIjBkZjE3MjE3LWRmY2QtNDAzMC05MDc5LTM2Nzk4NTVkNDJlZiIsICJmaWxlc3lzdGVtIjogImJhY2t1cF9mcyIsICJ1c2VyIjogImNsaWVudC5taXJyb3JfcGVlcl9ib290c3RyYXAiLCAic2l0ZV9uYW1lIjogInNpdGUtcmVtb3RlIiwgImtleSI6ICJBUUFhcDBCZ0xtRmpOeEFBVnNyZXozai9YYUV0T2UrbUJEZlJDZz09IiwgIm1vbl9ob3N0IjogIlt2MjoxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOCx2MToxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOV0ifQ=="}

`site-name` refers to a user-defined string to identify the remote filesystem. In context
of `peer_add` interface, `site-name` is the passed in `cluster` name from `remote_cluster_spec`.

Import the bootstrap token in the primary cluster via::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap import <fs_name> <token>

e.g.::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap import cephfs eyJmc2lkIjogIjBkZjE3MjE3LWRmY2QtNDAzMC05MDc5LTM2Nzk4NTVkNDJlZiIsICJmaWxlc3lzdGVtIjogImJhY2t1cF9mcyIsICJ1c2VyIjogImNsaWVudC5taXJyb3JfcGVlcl9ib290c3RyYXAiLCAic2l0ZV9uYW1lIjogInNpdGUtcmVtb3RlIiwgImtleSI6ICJBUUFhcDBCZ0xtRmpOeEFBVnNyZXozai9YYUV0T2UrbUJEZlJDZz09IiwgIm1vbl9ob3N0IjogIlt2MjoxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOCx2MToxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOV0ifQ==

Mirroring Status
----------------

CephFS mirroring module provides `mirror daemon status` interface to check mirror daemon status::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror daemon status
  [
    {
      "daemon_id": 284167,
      "filesystems": [
        {
          "filesystem_id": 1,
          "name": "a",
          "directory_count": 1,
          "peers": [
            {
              "uuid": "02117353-8cd1-44db-976b-eb20609aa160",
              "remote": {
                "client_name": "client.mirror_remote",
                "cluster_name": "ceph",
                "fs_name": "backup_fs"
              },
              "stats": {
                "failure_count": 1,
                "recovery_count": 0
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]

An entry per mirror daemon instance is displayed along with information such as configured
peers and basic stats. For more detailed stats, use the admin socket interface as detailed
below.

CephFS mirror daemons provide admin socket commands for querying mirror status. To check
available commands for mirror status use::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /path/to/mirror/daemon/admin/socket help
  {
      ....
      ....
      "fs mirror status cephfs@360": "get filesystem mirror status",
      ....
      ....
  }

Commands prefixed with`fs mirror status` provide mirror status for mirror enabled
file systems. Note that `cephfs@360` is of format `filesystem-name@filesystem-id`.
This format is required since mirror daemons get asynchronously notified regarding
file system mirror status (A file system can be deleted and recreated with the same
name).

This command currently provides minimal information regarding mirror status::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror status cephfs@360
  {
    "rados_inst": "192.168.0.5:0/1476644347",
    "peers": {
        "a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8": {
            "remote": {
                "client_name": "client.mirror_remote",
                "cluster_name": "site-a",
                "fs_name": "backup_fs"
            }
        }
    },
    "snap_dirs": {
        "dir_count": 1
    }
  }

The `Peers` section in the command output above shows the peer information including the unique
peer-id (UUID) and specification. The peer-id is required when removing an existing peer
as mentioned in the `Mirror Module and Interface` section.

Commands prefixed with `fs mirror peer status` provide peer synchronization status. This
command is of format `filesystem-name@filesystem-id peer-uuid`::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror peer status cephfs@360 a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8
  {
    "/d0": {
        "state": "idle",
        "last_synced_snap": {
            "id": 120,
            "name": "snap1",
            "sync_duration": 0.079997898999999997,
            "sync_time_stamp": "274900.558797s"
        },
        "snaps_synced": 2,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    }
  }

Synchronization stats including `snaps_synced`, `snaps_deleted` and `snaps_renamed` are reset
on daemon restart and/or when a directory is reassigned to another mirror daemon (when
multiple mirror daemons are deployed).

A directory can be in one of the following states::

  - `idle`: The directory is currently not being synchronized
  - `syncing`: The directory is currently being synchronized
  - `failed`: The directory has hit upper limit of consecutive failures

When a directory experiences a configured number of consecutive synchronization failures, the
mirror daemon marks it as `failed`. Synchronization for these directories is retried.
By default, the number of consecutive failures before a directory is marked as failed
is controlled by `cephfs_mirror_max_consecutive_failures_per_directory` configuration
option (default: 10) and the retry interval for failed directories is controlled via
`cephfs_mirror_retry_failed_directories_interval` configuration option (default: 60s).

E.g., adding a regular file for synchronization would result in failed status::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /f0
  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror peer status cephfs@360 a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8
  {
    "/d0": {
        "state": "idle",
        "last_synced_snap": {
            "id": 120,
            "name": "snap1",
            "sync_duration": 0.079997898999999997,
            "sync_time_stamp": "274900.558797s"
        },
        "snaps_synced": 2,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    },
    "/f0": {
        "state": "failed",
        "snaps_synced": 0,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    }
  }

This allows a user to add a non-existent directory for synchronization. The mirror daemon
will mark such a directory as failed and retry (less frequently). When the directory is
created, the mirror daemon will clear the failed state upon successful synchronization.

When mirroring is disabled, the respective `fs mirror status` command for the file system
will not show up in command help.

Configuration Options
---------------------

.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_concurrent_directory_syncs
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_action_update_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_restart_mirror_on_blocklist_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_snapshot_sync_per_cycle
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_directory_scan_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_consecutive_failures_per_directory
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_retry_failed_directories_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_restart_mirror_on_failure_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_mount_timeout

Re-adding Peers
---------------

When re-adding (reassigning) a peer to a file system in another cluster, ensure that
all mirror daemons have stopped synchronization to the peer. This can be checked
via `fs mirror status` admin socket command (the `Peer UUID` should not show up
in the command output). Also, it is recommended to purge synchronized directories
from the peer  before re-adding it to another file system (especially those directories
which might exist in the new primary file system). This is not required if re-adding
a peer to the same primary file system it was earlier synchronized from.

Commit message:

doc: document deploying multiple cephfs-mirror daemons
Signed-off-by: Venky Shankar <vshankar@redhat.com>

doc/cephfs/cephfs-mirroring.rst, after:

.. _cephfs-mirroring:

=========================
CephFS Snapshot Mirroring
=========================

CephFS supports asynchronous replication of snapshots to a remote CephFS file system via
the `cephfs-mirror` tool. Snapshots are synchronized by mirroring snapshot data followed by
creating a remote snapshot with the same name (for a given directory on the remote file system) as
the source snapshot.

Requirements
------------

The primary (local) and secondary (remote) Ceph clusters version should be Pacific or later.

Creating Users
--------------

Start by creating a Ceph user (on the primary/local cluster) for the `cephfs-mirror` daemon. This user
requires write capability on the metadata pool to create RADOS objects (index objects)
for watch/notify operation and read capability on the data pool(s)::

  $ ceph auth get-or-create client.mirror mon 'profile cephfs-mirror' mds 'allow r' osd 'allow rw tag cephfs metadata=*, allow r tag cephfs data=*' mgr 'allow r'

Create a Ceph user for each file system peer (on the secondary/remote cluster). This user needs
to have full capabilities on the MDS (to take snapshots) and the OSDs::

  $ ceph fs authorize <fs_name> client.mirror_remote / rwps

This user will be supplied as part of the peer specification when adding a peer.

Starting Mirror Daemon
----------------------

The mirror daemon should be spawned using `systemctl(1)` unit files::

  $ systemctl enable cephfs-mirror@mirror
  $ systemctl start cephfs-mirror@mirror

`cephfs-mirror` daemon can be run in foreground using::

  $ cephfs-mirror --id mirror --cluster site-a -f

.. note:: The user specified here is `mirror` created in the `Creating Users` section.

Multiple `cephfs-mirror` daemons may be deployed for concurrent synchronization and high
availability. Mirror daemons share the synchronization load using a simple `M/N` policy,
where `M` is the number of directories and `N` is the number of `cephfs-mirror` daemons.

When `cephadm` is used to manage a Ceph cluster, `cephfs-mirror` daemons can be deployed using::

  $ ceph orch apply cephfs-mirror

To deploy multiple mirror daemons use::

  $ ceph orch apply cephfs-mirror --placement=<placement-spec>

E.g., to deploy 3 `cephfs-mirror` daemons on different hosts, use::

  $ ceph orch apply cephfs-mirror --placement="3 host1,host2,host3"

Interface
---------

The `Mirroring` module (manager plugin) provides interfaces for managing directory snapshot
mirroring. These are (mostly) wrappers around monitor commands for managing
file system mirroring and is the recommended control interface.

Mirroring Module
----------------

The mirroring module is responsible for assigning directories to mirror daemons for
synchronization. Multiple mirror daemons can be spawned to achieve concurrency in
directory snapshot synchronization. When mirror daemons are spawned (or terminated),
the mirroring module discovers the modified set of mirror daemons and rebalances
directory assignments across the new set, thus providing high-availability.

.. note:: Deploying a single mirror daemon
          is recommended; running multiple daemons is untested.

The mirroring module is disabled by default. To enable the mirroring module::

  $ ceph mgr module enable mirroring

The mirroring module provides a family of commands to control mirroring of directory
snapshots. To add or remove directories, mirroring needs to be enabled for a given
file system. To enable mirroring for a given file system::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror enable <fs_name>

.. note:: Mirroring module commands are prefixed with `fs snapshot mirror` as compared to
          monitor commands which are prefixed with `fs mirror`. Be sure to use module
          commands.

To disable mirroring for a given file system::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror disable <fs_name>

Once mirroring is enabled, add a peer to which directory snapshots are to be mirrored.
Peers are specified by `<client>@<cluster>` and are assigned a unique-id (UUID)
when added. See `Creating Users` section on how to create Ceph users for mirroring.

To add a peer use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_add <fs_name> <remote_cluster_spec> [<remote_fs_name>] [<remote_mon_host>] [<cephx_key>]

`<remote_fs_name>` is optional, and defaults to `<fs_name>` (on the remote cluster).

This requires the remote cluster ceph configuration and user keyring to be available in
the primary cluster. See `Bootstrap Peers` section to avoid this. `peer_add` additionally
supports passing the remote cluster monitor address and the user key. However, bootstrapping
a peer is the recommended way to add a peer.

.. note:: Only a single peer is currently supported.

To remove a peer use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_remove <fs_name> <peer_uuid>

To list file system mirror peers use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_list <fs_name>

To configure a directory for mirroring, use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add <fs_name> <path>

To stop a mirroring directory snapshots use::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror remove <fs_name> <path>

Only absolute directory paths are allowed. Also, paths are normalized by the mirroring
module, therefore, `/a/b/../b` is equivalent to `/a/b`.

  $ mkdir -p /d0/d1/d2
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/d2
  {}
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/../d1/d2
  Error EEXIST: directory /d0/d1/d2 is already tracked

Once a directory is added for mirroring, additional mirroring of subdirectories or ancestor directories
is disallowed::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1
  Error EINVAL: /d0/d1 is a ancestor of tracked path /d0/d1/d2
  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /d0/d1/d2/d3
  Error EINVAL: /d0/d1/d2/d3 is a subtree of tracked path /d0/d1/d2

Commands to check directory mapping (to mirror daemons) and directory distribution are
detailed in `Mirroring Status` section.

Bootstrap Peers
---------------

Adding a peer (via `peer_add`) requires the peer cluster configuration and user keyring
to be available in the primary cluster (manager host and hosts running the mirror daemon).
This can be avoided by bootstrapping and importing a peer token. Peer bootstrap involves
creating a bootstrap token on the peer cluster via::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap create <fs_name> <client_entity> <site-name>

e.g.::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap create backup_fs client.mirror_remote site-remote
  {"token": "eyJmc2lkIjogIjBkZjE3MjE3LWRmY2QtNDAzMC05MDc5LTM2Nzk4NTVkNDJlZiIsICJmaWxlc3lzdGVtIjogImJhY2t1cF9mcyIsICJ1c2VyIjogImNsaWVudC5taXJyb3JfcGVlcl9ib290c3RyYXAiLCAic2l0ZV9uYW1lIjogInNpdGUtcmVtb3RlIiwgImtleSI6ICJBUUFhcDBCZ0xtRmpOeEFBVnNyZXozai9YYUV0T2UrbUJEZlJDZz09IiwgIm1vbl9ob3N0IjogIlt2MjoxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOCx2MToxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOV0ifQ=="}

`site-name` refers to a user-defined string to identify the remote filesystem. In context
of `peer_add` interface, `site-name` is the passed in `cluster` name from `remote_cluster_spec`.

Import the bootstrap token in the primary cluster via::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap import <fs_name> <token>

e.g.::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror peer_bootstrap import cephfs eyJmc2lkIjogIjBkZjE3MjE3LWRmY2QtNDAzMC05MDc5LTM2Nzk4NTVkNDJlZiIsICJmaWxlc3lzdGVtIjogImJhY2t1cF9mcyIsICJ1c2VyIjogImNsaWVudC5taXJyb3JfcGVlcl9ib290c3RyYXAiLCAic2l0ZV9uYW1lIjogInNpdGUtcmVtb3RlIiwgImtleSI6ICJBUUFhcDBCZ0xtRmpOeEFBVnNyZXozai9YYUV0T2UrbUJEZlJDZz09IiwgIm1vbl9ob3N0IjogIlt2MjoxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOCx2MToxOTIuMTY4LjAuNTo0MDkxOV0ifQ==

Mirroring Status
----------------

CephFS mirroring module provides `mirror daemon status` interface to check mirror daemon status::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror daemon status
  [
    {
      "daemon_id": 284167,
      "filesystems": [
        {
          "filesystem_id": 1,
          "name": "a",
          "directory_count": 1,
          "peers": [
            {
              "uuid": "02117353-8cd1-44db-976b-eb20609aa160",
              "remote": {
                "client_name": "client.mirror_remote",
                "cluster_name": "ceph",
                "fs_name": "backup_fs"
              },
              "stats": {
                "failure_count": 1,
                "recovery_count": 0
              }
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]

An entry per mirror daemon instance is displayed along with information such as configured
peers and basic stats. For more detailed stats, use the admin socket interface as detailed
below.

CephFS mirror daemons provide admin socket commands for querying mirror status. To check
available commands for mirror status use::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /path/to/mirror/daemon/admin/socket help
  {
      ....
      ....
      "fs mirror status cephfs@360": "get filesystem mirror status",
      ....
      ....
  }

Commands prefixed with`fs mirror status` provide mirror status for mirror enabled
file systems. Note that `cephfs@360` is of format `filesystem-name@filesystem-id`.
This format is required since mirror daemons get asynchronously notified regarding
file system mirror status (A file system can be deleted and recreated with the same
name).

This command currently provides minimal information regarding mirror status::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror status cephfs@360
  {
    "rados_inst": "192.168.0.5:0/1476644347",
    "peers": {
        "a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8": {
            "remote": {
                "client_name": "client.mirror_remote",
                "cluster_name": "site-a",
                "fs_name": "backup_fs"
            }
        }
    },
    "snap_dirs": {
        "dir_count": 1
    }
  }

The `Peers` section in the command output above shows the peer information including the unique
peer-id (UUID) and specification. The peer-id is required when removing an existing peer
as mentioned in the `Mirror Module and Interface` section.

Commands prefixed with `fs mirror peer status` provide peer synchronization status. This
command is of format `filesystem-name@filesystem-id peer-uuid`::

  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror peer status cephfs@360 a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8
  {
    "/d0": {
        "state": "idle",
        "last_synced_snap": {
            "id": 120,
            "name": "snap1",
            "sync_duration": 0.079997898999999997,
            "sync_time_stamp": "274900.558797s"
        },
        "snaps_synced": 2,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    }
  }

Synchronization stats including `snaps_synced`, `snaps_deleted` and `snaps_renamed` are reset
on daemon restart and/or when a directory is reassigned to another mirror daemon (when
multiple mirror daemons are deployed).

A directory can be in one of the following states::

  - `idle`: The directory is currently not being synchronized
  - `syncing`: The directory is currently being synchronized
  - `failed`: The directory has hit upper limit of consecutive failures

When a directory experiences a configured number of consecutive synchronization failures, the
mirror daemon marks it as `failed`. Synchronization for these directories is retried.
By default, the number of consecutive failures before a directory is marked as failed
is controlled by `cephfs_mirror_max_consecutive_failures_per_directory` configuration
option (default: 10) and the retry interval for failed directories is controlled via
`cephfs_mirror_retry_failed_directories_interval` configuration option (default: 60s).

E.g., adding a regular file for synchronization would result in failed status::

  $ ceph fs snapshot mirror add cephfs /f0
  $ ceph --admin-daemon /var/run/ceph/cephfs-mirror.asok fs mirror peer status cephfs@360 a2dc7784-e7a1-4723-b103-03ee8d8768f8
  {
    "/d0": {
        "state": "idle",
        "last_synced_snap": {
            "id": 120,
            "name": "snap1",
            "sync_duration": 0.079997898999999997,
            "sync_time_stamp": "274900.558797s"
        },
        "snaps_synced": 2,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    },
    "/f0": {
        "state": "failed",
        "snaps_synced": 0,
        "snaps_deleted": 0,
        "snaps_renamed": 0
    }
  }

This allows a user to add a non-existent directory for synchronization. The mirror daemon
will mark such a directory as failed and retry (less frequently). When the directory is
created, the mirror daemon will clear the failed state upon successful synchronization.

When mirroring is disabled, the respective `fs mirror status` command for the file system
will not show up in command help.

Configuration Options
---------------------

.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_concurrent_directory_syncs
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_action_update_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_restart_mirror_on_blocklist_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_snapshot_sync_per_cycle
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_directory_scan_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_max_consecutive_failures_per_directory
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_retry_failed_directories_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_restart_mirror_on_failure_interval
.. confval:: cephfs_mirror_mount_timeout

Re-adding Peers
---------------

When re-adding (reassigning) a peer to a file system in another cluster, ensure that
all mirror daemons have stopped synchronization to the peer. This can be checked
via `fs mirror status` admin socket command (the `Peer UUID` should not show up
in the command output). Also, it is recommended to purge synchronized directories
from the peer  before re-adding it to another file system (especially those directories
which might exist in the new primary file system). This is not required if re-adding
a peer to the same primary file system it was earlier synchronized from.
