doc/mgr/dashboard_plugins/motd.inc.rst, before:

.. _dashboard-motd:

Message of the day (MOTD)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays a configured `message of the day` at the top of the Ceph Dashboard.

The importance of a MOTD can be configured by its severity, which is
`info`, `warning` or `danger`. The MOTD can expire after a given time,
this means it will not be displayed in the UI anymore. Use the following
syntax to specify the expiration time: `Ns|m|h|d|w` for seconds, minutes,
hours, days and weeks. If the MOTD should expire after 2 hours, use `2h`
or `5w` for 5 weeks. Use `0` to configure a MOTD that does not expire.

To configure a MOTD, run the following command::

  $ ceph dashboard motd set <severity:info|warning|danger> <expires> <message>

To show the configured MOTD::

  $ ceph dashboard motd get

To clear the configured MOTD run::

  $ ceph dashboard motd clear

A MOTD with a `info` or `warning` severity can be closed by the user. The
`info` MOTD is not displayed anymore until the local storage cookies are
cleared or a new MOTD with a different severity is displayed. A MOTD with
a 'warning' severity will be displayed again in a new session.

Commit message:

doc/mgr: update prompts in dboard.rst includes
This PR adds unselectable prompts to three files that are
transcluded in the doc/mgr/dashboard.rst file. These three
files are:

 1. debug.inc.rst
 2. feature_toggles.inc.rst
 3. motd.inc.rst

The addition of unselectable prompts to these three files
completes the work begun in PR#47810 (d8064b4), which sought
to bring dashboard.rst into line with the unselectable prompt
standard introduced by Kefu Chai in 2020.

Signed-off-by: Zac Dover <zac.dover@gmail.com>

doc/mgr/dashboard_plugins/motd.inc.rst, after:

.. _dashboard-motd:

Message of the day (MOTD)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Displays a configured `message of the day` at the top of the Ceph Dashboard.

The importance of a MOTD can be configured by its severity, which is
`info`, `warning` or `danger`. The MOTD can expire after a given time,
this means it will not be displayed in the UI anymore. Use the following
syntax to specify the expiration time: `Ns|m|h|d|w` for seconds, minutes,
hours, days and weeks. If the MOTD should expire after 2 hours, use `2h`
or `5w` for 5 weeks. Use `0` to configure a MOTD that does not expire.

To configure a MOTD, run the following command:

.. prompt:: bash $

   ceph dashboard motd set <severity:info|warning|danger> <expires> <message>

To show the configured MOTD:

.. prompt:: bash $

   ceph dashboard motd get

To clear the configured MOTD run:

.. prompt:: bash $

   ceph dashboard motd clear

A MOTD with a `info` or `warning` severity can be closed by the user. The
`info` MOTD is not displayed anymore until the local storage cookies are
cleared or a new MOTD with a different severity is displayed. A MOTD with
a 'warning' severity will be displayed again in a new session.
