doc/install/mirrors.rst, before:

=============
 Ceph Mirrors
=============

For improved user experience multiple mirrors for Ceph are available around the
world.

These mirrors are kindly sponsored by various companies who want to support the
Ceph project.


Locations
=========

These mirrors are available on the following locations:

- **EU: Netherlands**: http://eu.ceph.com/
- **AU: Australia**: http://au.ceph.com/
- **SE: Sweden**: http://se.ceph.com/
- **DE: Germany**: http://de.ceph.com/
- **HK: Hong Kong**: http://hk.ceph.com/
- **FR: France**: http://fr.ceph.com/
- **UK: UK**: http://uk.ceph.com
- **US-East: US East Coast**: http://us-east.ceph.com/
- **US-Mid-West: Chicago**: http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ceph/
- **US-West: US West Coast**: http://us-west.ceph.com/
- **CN: China**: http://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/ceph/

You can replace all download.ceph.com URLs with any of the mirrors, for example:

- http://download.ceph.com/tarballs/
- http://download.ceph.com/debian-hammer/
- http://download.ceph.com/rpm-hammer/

Change this to:

- http://eu.ceph.com/tarballs/
- http://eu.ceph.com/debian-hammer/
- http://eu.ceph.com/rpm-hammer/


Mirroring
=========

You can easily mirror Ceph yourself using a Bash script and rsync. An easy-to-use
script can be found at `Github`_.

When mirroring Ceph, please keep the following guidelines in mind:

- Choose a mirror close to you
- Do not sync in a interval shorter than 3 hours
- Avoid syncing at minute 0 of the hour, use something between 0 and 59


Becoming a mirror
=================

If you want to provide a public mirror for other users of Ceph you can opt to
become a official mirror.

To make sure all mirrors meet the same standards some requirements have been
set for all mirrors. These can be found on `Github`_.

If you want to apply for an official mirror, please contact the ceph-users mailinglist.


.. _Github: https://github.com/ceph/ceph/tree/master/mirroring

Commit message:

doc: Fix many spelling errors
* administrators
* allocated
* allowed
* approximate
* authenticate
* availability
* average
* behavior
* binaries
* bootstrap
* bootstrapping
* capacity
* cephadm
* clients
* combining
* command
* committed
* comparison
* compiled
* consequences
* continues
* convenience
* cookie
* crypto
* dashboard
* deduplication
* defaults
* delivered
* deployment
* describe
* directory
* documentation
* dynamic
* elimination
* entries
* expectancy
* explicit
* explicitly
* exporter
* github
* hard
* healthcheck
* heartbeat
* heavily
* http
* indices
* infrastructure
* inherit
* layout
* lexically
* likelihood
* logarithmic
* manually
* metadata
* minimization
* minimize
* object
* of
* operation
* opportunities
* overwrite
* prioritized
* recipe
* records
* requirements
* restructured
* running
* scalability
* second
* select
* significant
* specify
* subscription
* supported
* synonym
* throttle
* unpinning
* upgraded
* value
* version
* which
* with

Plus some line wrapping and additional edits...

Signed-off-by: Josh Soref <jsoref@users.noreply.github.com>

doc/install/mirrors.rst, after:

=============
 Ceph Mirrors
=============

For improved user experience multiple mirrors for Ceph are available around the
world.

These mirrors are kindly sponsored by various companies who want to support the
Ceph project.


Locations
=========

These mirrors are available on the following locations:

- **EU: Netherlands**: http://eu.ceph.com/
- **AU: Australia**: http://au.ceph.com/
- **SE: Sweden**: http://se.ceph.com/
- **DE: Germany**: http://de.ceph.com/
- **HK: Hong Kong**: http://hk.ceph.com/
- **FR: France**: http://fr.ceph.com/
- **UK: UK**: http://uk.ceph.com
- **US-East: US East Coast**: http://us-east.ceph.com/
- **US-Mid-West: Chicago**: http://mirrors.gigenet.com/ceph/
- **US-West: US West Coast**: http://us-west.ceph.com/
- **CN: China**: http://mirrors.ustc.edu.cn/ceph/

You can replace all download.ceph.com URLs with any of the mirrors, for example:

- http://download.ceph.com/tarballs/
- http://download.ceph.com/debian-hammer/
- http://download.ceph.com/rpm-hammer/

Change this to:

- http://eu.ceph.com/tarballs/
- http://eu.ceph.com/debian-hammer/
- http://eu.ceph.com/rpm-hammer/


Mirroring
=========

You can easily mirror Ceph yourself using a Bash script and rsync. An easy-to-use
script can be found at `GitHub`_.

When mirroring Ceph, please keep the following guidelines in mind:

- Choose a mirror close to you
- Do not sync in a interval shorter than 3 hours
- Avoid syncing at minute 0 of the hour, use something between 0 and 59


Becoming a mirror
=================

If you want to provide a public mirror for other users of Ceph you can opt to
become a official mirror.

To make sure all mirrors meet the same standards some requirements have been
set for all mirrors. These can be found on `GitHub`_.

If you want to apply for an official mirror, please contact the ceph-users mailinglist.


.. _GitHub: https://github.com/ceph/ceph/tree/master/mirroring
